Meditation Trance

“Eliriel  was  incredibly  tired.  She  knew  she  had  to 
get  some  rest,  else  she  would  not  make  it  through 
the next day. But the group was small and the need 
for a watch was dire. She would only get two hours 
of meditation.”

The Meditation  skill consists  of six  subgroups:  
Cleansing
Death
Healing
Ki
Sleep
Trance

They are all similar skills at 1/2, but have widely different functions. 
Only one skill can be used during each rest.

Meditation  Trance  is  the  elven  variant  of  Meditation Sleep. 

The skill have two different uses: 
-it allows elves to set a time for their meditation to end, and it can be used 
to lessen the negative effects of too little rest or broken 
rest.

 Since the skill have different uses, the static maneuver table will give two different numbers
  in addition to the describing text. Reduced penalties from lacking or broken rest.
  
 Meditation Trance
Static Maneuver Table SM-10.2.5
-26 down  Spectacular Failure 

You try hard to get some rest, but trying hard is not resting. You 
fail to enter a state of meditation and the hours spent trying will not 
benefit you at all (i.e no rest, no healing and no PP recovered). 

-25 – -04 Absolute Failure 
d100
You enter a meditative trance, but dark and worried memories 
prevent you from repose. You may only count half of the time spent 
as rest, will heal at half rate and recover only half of your normal 
PP recovery. 

05 – 75 Failure 
d3d10
You break meditation within 3-30 minutes of set time. All penalties 
for broken or inadequate rest applies.

76 – 90 Partial Success 
2d10
You manage to break meditation within 2-20 minutes of set time, 
but any penalties remain.

91 – 110 Near Success 
1d10
The meditative rest give you time to contemplate your memories 
and recover from the days worries. You rest well and manage to 
break meditation with an exactness of 1-10 minutes of your chosen 
endtime. Any penalties from lack of rest or broken meditation will 
be offset by 10.

111 – 175 Success 
1d6
Entering a trance in which you recuperate your memories and 
heal your mind. You are able to wake from meditation within 
1-6 minutes of set time and any penalties from broken rest or 
inadequate rest is lowered by 20. If using the Rejuvenation skill to 
recover additional power points, add a +20 to that roll.

176 – 225 Absolute Success 
1d3
You successfully meditate and are able to exit meditation with an 
exactness of 1-6 minutes within the set time. Penalties from broken 
rest or inadequate rest is lowered by 30. If using the Rejuvenation 
skill to recover additional power points, add a +20 to that roll.

226 up  Remarkable Success 
exact
You are able to wake yourself from meditation on exactly the 
predestined minute. Impressive! Any penalties from lack of rest or 
broken rest will be offset by 40. If using the Rejuvenation skill to 
recover additional power points, add a +20 to that roll.

Static maneuver modifications:
Open-ended d100 roll
- 10 for deliberately shortening the meditation by 1 hour.
- 20 for deliberately shortening the meditation by 2 hours.
- 20 if being awakened by violent actions before the meditation 
was set to end.
- 10 per day this skill have been used to shorten the period of 
meditation.
All penalties are cumulative